Source: https://www.cancer.gov/about-nci/organization
Retrieved: 2026-10-01

NCI Organization - NCI
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Español
Menu
Search
Search
Print
Email
NCI Organization
As the nation's leading federal agency for cancer research, NCI has 30 divisions, offices, and centers who work together to build, maintain, and enhance a cohesive and comprehensive cancer research agenda. Their work ranges from cutting-edge research on cancer causes, treatment, and prevention; to training the next generation of cancer researchers; to funding and supporting the nation's vast network of scientists and cancer research institutions; to informing and educating the American public and the world about cancer. The NIH Office of Management Assessment maintains the official NCI organization chart .
Intramural Divisions
Center for Cancer Research
CCR is home to basic, clinical, and translational researchers who innovatively explore rare and neglected areas of cancer and HIV/AIDS research and develop novel therapeutic options for patients.
Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics
DCEG is a world leader in cancer epidemiology and genetics research, dedicated to training the next generation of scientists.
Extramural Divisions
Division of Cancer Biology
DCB supports research in foundational cancer biology that leads to better ways to prevent, detect, and treat the disease.
Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences
DCCPS conducts and supports an integrated program of genetic, epidemiological, behavioral, social, applied, and surveillance cancer research to reduce risk, incidence, and deaths from cancer as well as enhance the quality of life for cancer survivors.
Division of Cancer Prevention
DCP conducts and supports research to find ways to prevent and detect cancer and to prevent or relieve symptoms from cancer and its treatments.
Extramural Divisions
Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis
DCTD supports the translation of promising research into clinical applications to improve the diagnosis and treatment of cancer in areas of unmet need that are often too risky or difficult for industry or academia to develop alone.
Division of Extramural Activities
DEA coordinates the scientific review of extramural research before funding and provides systematic surveillance of that research after awards are made to assist NCI in achieving its goal of a balanced research portfolio.
NCI Office of the Director
Center for Biomedical Informatics and Information Technology
CBIIT collaborates across NCI to plan, provide, and coordinate technology, standards, and scientific computing to speed discovery, facilitate open science, and progress towards precision treatment in cancer care and a learning health care system.
Center for Cancer Genomics
CCG unifies NCI's activities in cancer genomics by aiming to synthesize research in different fields of cancer genomics (structural, functional, and computational) to improve patient outcomes.
Center to Reduce Cancer Health Disparities
CRCHD works towards eliminating health disparities, advancing research across basic, clinical, translational, and population-based studies, promoting the workforce, and enhancing community engagement.
Center for Cancer Training
CCT supports NCI's goal of training cancer researchers for the 21st century by funding cancer research training nationwide and managing intramural training programs at NCI laboratories and offices in Maryland.
Center for Global Health
CGH coordinates research and works with partners worldwide to address the global burden of cancer.
Center for Research Strategy
CRS conducts analysis, evaluation, and planning activities to support strategic decision-making for program management, policymaking, and strategic planning.
Center for Strategic Scientific Initiatives
CSSI manages the reporting of NCI’s funded portfolio and coordinates interdisciplinary cancer research programs, events, and resources in collaboration with experts across the institute and research community.
Coordinating Center for Clinical Trials
CCCT coordinates the integration of NCI's clinical and translational research programs.
Ethics Office
The Ethics Office manages a comprehensive ethics program to ensure that employees and others working with NCI comply with the institute’s statutory responsibilities and serve the public with integrity.
Office of Budget and Finance
OBF advises NCI’s Office of the Director and other senior staff on the management of financial and personnel resources to ensure fiscally responsible and efficient operation of the institute.
Office of Cancer Centers
OCC supports 73 NCI-Designated Cancer Centers nationwide that are actively engaged in transdisciplinary research to reduce cancer incidence, morbidity, and mortality.
Office of Communications and Public Liaison
OCPL leads strategic communications for NCI, supporting timely dissemination of information about cancer and cancer research.
Office of Data Sharing
The Office of Data sharing (ODS) develops and advances strategies that ensure NCI-supported research outputs benefit the cancer community in alignment with federal data management, sharing, and public access policies.
Office of Grants Administration
OGA manages grant award business requirements to ensure funding recipients and NCI fulfill and comply with all legal, regulatory, and administrative policies.
Office of HIV and AIDS Malignancy
OHAM conducts HIV and AIDS-associated research and coordinates related research activities across NCI.
Office of Management
The Office of Management provides executive leadership and oversight for business functions and administrative activities, advises the director and senior staff on management issues, and leads a variety of programs vital to administrative operations.
Office of Scientific Operations, NCI Frederick
Learn more about NCI Frederick and its Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research.
SBIR Development Center
The SBIR Development Center seeks to increase small business and private sector participation to develop and commercialize novel technologies and products to help advance cancer research, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.
Technology Transfer Center
TTC connects research laboratories with external partners to advance public health. Learn how to collaborate with and license technologies from NCI and NIH.
Print
Email
Back To Top
Sign up for email updates
Enter your email address
Sign up
National Cancer Institute
at the National Institutes of Health
Contact Us
Live Chat
1-800-4-CANCER
NCIinfo@nih.gov
Site Feedback
Follow us
Facebook
Follow on X
Instagram
Youtube
Linkedin
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
National Institutes of Health
National Cancer Institute
USA.gov