                          ATTACHMENT 3 - STATEMENT OF WORK
Independently and not as an agent of the Government, the Contractor shall furnish all the necessary
services, personnel, materials, equipment, and facilities, not otherwise provided by the Government, to
perform the Statement of Work.

Scope

The Contractor shall operate the National Cancer Institute’s (NCI) Contact Center, also known as NCI’s
Cancer Information Service (CIS), by responding to inquiries on behalf of NCI, an essential part of NCI’s
cancer education and information efforts. The Contractor shall provide scientifically based, unbiased
information to patients, their families and friends; physicians, and other health professionals and the
public about all aspects of cancer. The type of information includes cancer research and clinical trials,
cancer prevention, risk factors, symptoms, early detection, diagnosis, treatment, living with cancer,
survivorship, and tobacco and cessation counseling. The Contractor shall also provide information about
NCI programs/grants to researchers/investigators and specialists to address first tier questions of the
research community. The Contractor shall provide and manage a bilingual (English and Spanish) omni-
channel Contact Center in support of the following scope of work:

        •   Cancer information and case management along the cancer continuum.
        •   Clinical trials information, education, recruitment, and case management.
        •   Nicotine and tobacco cessation counseling, information, and case management.
        •   Information about NCI and its Divisions, Offices, and Centers (DOCs), programs, priorities,
            and activities.

The Contractor shall use NCI materials and Government-selected sources of information to respond to
inquiries in both English and Spanish, including pre-approved non-NCI resources (textbooks, research
publications, and Web sites). The Contractor shall deliver services via:

    Toll-free numbers:

        •   1-800-4-CANCER (Cancer information)
        •   1-877-44U-QUIT (Tobacco cessation information)
        •   1-800-QUIT-NOW and 1-855- DEJELO-YA (Tobacco cessation information- Department of
            Health and Human Services (DHHS) National Portal Numbers)
        •   1-855-QUIT-VET (Tobacco cessation information- Veteran’s Administration)
        •   1-888-624-1937 (Center for Cancer Research (CCR) Patient Referral Line)

    Additional Access Channels:
       • LiveHelp, online chat service (reactive and proactive sessions)
       • E-mail
       • NCI Enterprise Social Media Accounts, such as Facebook, X, Instagram, YouTube
       • U.S. Postal Mail
       • Voicemail boxes for low volume queues and during operational closures (see hours of
            operation)
       • Interactive Voice Response (IVR) Message Library
       • National Organizations that Offer Support Services Database
ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                              Page 1 of 14                                  May 14, 2024
      Access channels and/or program services may be refocused/expanded based upon the
      availability of new technologies, Federal Agency Partnerships, or evolving needs of NCI and its
      stakeholders. This may include, but is not limited to, implementing chat bots, offering text
      message responses, video calling, mobile apps, portals to support patient engagement in cancer
      research studies, and/or the provision of additional language/translation services.

     Hours of operation:
      1. Telephone Service: 9:00 a.m. – 9:00 p.m. Eastern Time, Monday – Friday
      2. LiveHelp Service: 9:00 a.m. – 9:00 p.m. Eastern Time, Monday – Friday
      3. Automated Interactive Voice Response (IVR) and Voicemail support during Overnight Hours,
         Weekends, and Government Holidays. During overnight hours, weekends, and holidays, the
         Contact Center shall post a recorded message that the center is closed. The message shall
         include:
             a. The operating hours of the Contact Center and a welcoming message asking callers to
                 call back to the Contact Center during normal business hours; and,
             b. The web address of the NCI website and NCI email / Social Media addresses.

          Hours of operation will be aligned with customer needs and are subject to change and may
          include emergency operations depending upon the needs of the Government.

    Government Holidays: The following Government holidays are normally observed by Government
    personnel, http://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/snow-dismissal-procedures/federal-
    holidays.

      •    New Year’s Day
      •    Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr.
      •    Washington’s Birthday/President’s Day
      •    Memorial Day
      •    Juneteenth
      •    Independence Day
      •    Labor Day
      •    Columbus Day
      •    Veterans Day
      •    Thanksgiving Day
      •    Christmas Day
      •    Any other day designated by Federal Statute, Executive Order, and/or Presidential
           Proclamation

     Audiences:
      • Cancer patients.
      • Tobacco users.
      • Friends and family, and the public.
      • Medical professionals, healthcare providers and cancer researchers.
      • NCI Divisions, Centers, Offices (DOCs) and program staff.



ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                            Page 2 of 14                                 May 14, 2024
     Service area:
     United States, U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, U.S. Associated Pacific Territories (American Samoa,
     Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands).

Due to Privacy Act and IT security concerns, the Contractor’s business and staff proposed for this
contract must reside within the United States.

The Contractor shall create a customer experience designed to meet or exceed the needs and
expectations of its customers. To this end, the Contractor shall meet quality assurance standards,
identified in Tasks 1, 2 and 3, for:
    • service access.
    • service quality.
    • customer satisfaction.

The Contractor shall also address such topics as customer effort, end-to-end customer experience with
NCI products and services, and post-interaction experience and resolution.


Task 1: Customer Experience


The Contractor shall:
1. Develop and implement an optimal customer experience strategy which includes strategies for
    engagement and collaboration, listening and learning, and alignment to customer needs, including
    the needs of minority and underserved populations.
2. Provide first-level triage (commonly referred to as Tier 1 support- the initial support level
    responsible for basic customer issues) to NCI Divisions, Offices, and Centers (DOCs), as requested,
    including NCI’s programs such as the Childhood Cancer Data Initiative, CCR and others.
3. Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of underserved communities and minority researchers’
    needs and connect them with appropriate program staff/resources such as NCI/NIH programs,
    training/funding opportunities, and any other relevant information.
4. Use NCI-furnished systems and tools to conduct quality assurance that emphasize the importance of
    scientifically accurate and relevant information delivery.
5. Establish a quality assurance process that ensures compliance with quality assurance standards and
    follows NCI’s rubric guidelines. The quality assurance process shall include:
    • quality monitoring of contacts (all Information specialists, all channels),
    • accurate data collection,
    • provision of individual performance feedback and reports to Information Specialists,
    • coaching of Information Specialists,
    • coaching and training of Supervisors,
    • revised training and hiring practices based on results of monitoring, and
    • regular process improvements
6. Provide planning and support to cancer patients who need assistance locating services in the event
    of natural disaster.



ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                              Page 3 of 14                                   May 14, 2024
7. Notify the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) and implement a remediation plan upon
    request if the Contractor does not meet the agreed quality assurance level and/or service level
    agreements (SLAs) on all access channels.
8. Identify deficiencies in performance and develop and implement Performance Improvement Plans;
    provide plans to the Government quarterly.
9. Ensure understanding of quality standards and application of accurate, consistent scoring in contact
    evaluations.
10. Ensure that individual coaching sessions for performance improvement and professional
    development are implemented.
11. Implement NCI customer satisfaction surveys per Government instructions. If the survey does not
    meet or exceed 86 for the American Customer Satisfaction Index Survey (ACSI), the Contractor shall
    notify the COR and implement a remediation plan.
12. Participate in monthly calibration sessions with the NCI to ensure consistency and accuracy in
    evaluation.

Task 2: Provide customer-centric cancer and clinical trials information and other types of cancer
research study information

The Contractor shall provide accurate, up-to-date, and reliable cancer information that is easy to
understand. Information Specialists shall provide personalized responses to a broad range of questions,
including cancer research and clinical trials, including case management for clinical trials, how to find
cancer treatment centers, cancer prevention, risk factors, symptoms, early detection, diagnosis, and
treatment, living with cancer, tissue/ biospecimen donation, and survivorship.

The Contractor shall provide tailored, customer-centric service. Inquiries from customers may be highly
complex and sensitive in nature. In addition to providing information via voice and existing digital
channels, the Contractor shall also send printed NCI materials and publications to customers, as
appropriate. Information Specialists shall provide information about and facilitate recruitment to NCI
intramural and NCI-supported clinical trials. Information Specialists shall additionally provide
information about and facilitate recruitment to other types of NCI studies for which patients may have
an opportunity to participate, for example prevention, biospecimens, epidemiological, genetics, and/or
health behavior change studies. Proactive contacts may be made to the public, depending on specific
program priority areas and special initiatives as directed by the Government.

The Contractor shall:
1. Provide telephone, e-mail, LiveHelp, social media, postal mail inquiry responses, and clinical trials
    searches, in English and Spanish, based on NCI approved handling procedures, Center for Cancer
    Research (CCR) protocols, and other tools and resources.
2. Provide telephone and e-mail follow up for patients calling for cancer support, particularly for side
    effects and symptom management.
3. Provide clinical trials support and follow up, including prevention and treatment studies, as well as
    support in the recruitment of trial participants.
4. Provide first-level triage (Tier 1 support) for services provided by other Federal Agencies.
5. Notify the COR and implement a remediation plan upon request if the Contractor does not meet the
    agreed quality assurance level and/or service level agreements (SLAs) on all access channels.
6. Provide responses to all emails within 4 business days.
7. Provide responses to all Enterprise social media responses within 1 business day.
ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                              Page 4 of 14                                  May 14, 2024
8. Ensure approved non-NCI resources are available and up to date, accessible to Contact Center staff,
    and are in sufficient quantities.
9. Develop and implement procedures for updating and maintaining cancer and clinical trials
    information contained in the Recorded Interactive Voice Response (IVR) message library in
    accordance with approved NCI materials.
10. Manage cancer, clinical trials, and other cancer research study content, talking points, and standard
    language in the NCI Contact Center knowledge-management system.
11. Provide information in a professional manner and ensure that customers’ questions are answered
    accurately and completely in accordance with approved NCI materials.
12. Provide cancer and clinical trials content review for NCI materials as requested by the Government,
    including the National Organizations that offer a Support Services Database.
13. Develop and implement procedures for handling and escalation of inquiries within Contact Center
    and to NCI staff as appropriate based on complexity of information, subject matter, or caller
    behavior (for example, handling suicidal customers); and
14. Participate, as needed, in promotional activities, including providing images, audio, etc. that depict
    CIS activities.

Task 3: Provide nicotine/tobacco information and counseling

CIS provides nicotine and tobacco information and resources to users seeking to quit smoking or stay
quit, as well as to reduce the burden of nicotine and tobacco products. The Contractor shall provide
tailored, customer-centric service. Nicotine and tobacco cessation information inquiries from customers
may be highly complex and sensitive in nature. In addition to providing information via voice and
existing digital channels, the Contractor shall also send printed NCI materials and publications to
customers, as appropriate. Proactive contacts may be made to the public, depending on specific
program priority areas and special initiatives as directed by the Government.

The Contractor shall:
1. Provide telephone, e-mail, LiveHelp (through cancer.gov and Smokefree.gov), social media, and
    postal mail inquiry responses, in English and Spanish based on NCI approved handling procedures
    and other tools and resources.
2. Notify the COR and implement a remediation plan if the Contractor does not meet the agreed
    service levels.
3. Provide responses to all emails within 4 business days.
4. Provide responses to all Enterprise social media responses within 1 business day.
5. Ensure approved non-NCI resources (publications, webpages, textbooks, and/or other reference
    materials previously reviewed and approved by the Government) are available and up to date,
    accessible to Contact Center staff, and are in sufficient quantities.
6. Develop and implement procedures for updating and maintaining information contained in the
    Recorded Interactive Voice Response (IVR) message library in accordance with approved NCI
    materials.
7. Manage nicotine and tobacco cessation content, talking points, and standard language in the
    Contact Center knowledge-management system.
8. Provide information in a professional manner and ensure that customers’ questions are answered
    accurately and completely in accordance with approved NCI materials.
9. Provide nicotine and tobacco cessation content review for Smokefree.gov and other NCI materials
    as requested by the Government.

ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                              Page 5 of 14                                   May 14, 2024
10. Develop and implement procedures for handling and escalation of inquiries to Contact Center and
    NCI staff as needed based on complexity of information, subject matter, or caller behavior (for
    example, handling suicidal customers); and
11. Participate, as needed, in promotional activities, including providing images, audio, etc. that depict
    CIS activities.

Task 4: Training

The Contractor is responsible for the development, implementation, and evaluation of training for NCI
Contact Center staff. The Government will provide existing NCI-approved initial training modules at the
start of the contract. Development of new training modules and updating of existing modules shall be
the responsibility of the Contractor. NCI will review materials annually. Training typically should not
affect normal Contact Center operations, though exceptions for closures can be made after consulting
with the NCI program staff as appropriate.

Changes to NCI programs and/or priorities may require the Contractor to conduct additional training
and feedback sessions to address the Government’s requirements and concerns. These sessions are to
be provided only in response to the Government’s request and are not part of the Contractor’s normal
training program.

In consultation with NCI the Contractor shall:
1. Manage training of all Information Specialists to enhance knowledge and build skills.
2. Implement skills-based training as needs are identified in the CIS.
3. Ensure that the training program reflects the needs of the customers and the Government.
4. Incorporate Contact Center policies and procedures into the training program.
5. Submit annual training plans for the CIS, including plans for Spanish-language training, to the NCI
    COR.
6. Review and update all Initial Training modules annually, on a schedule determined by the COR.
7. Develop new Initial Training modules and continuing education modules, in consultation with the
    NCI COR; and,
8. Participate in additional NCI conducted trainings, as directed.

Task 5: Ownership of Data/Materials

During the performance of these tasks, the Contractor shall create and maintain trainings and other
materials used to support the operations of the Contact Center (e.g., knowledge base entries, standard
responses, business rules, quality tools, and other standard operating procedures).

The Contractor shall:
1. Provide a copy of such trainings, information, and materials for review and approval by the COR.
2. Upon request, furnish the required information in electronic format within ten business days of
    written notification by the COR and.
3. Not release, publish, share, or use data or other information collected under this contract with other
    Government agencies, organizations, companies, or individuals without the express written
    authorization from the COR.

Task 6: Pilot Projects

ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                               Page 6 of 14                                   May 14, 2024
The Contractor shall collaborate with NCI Divisions, Offices, and Centers (DOCs) to support NCI-directed
pilot projects.

Pilot projects may involve but are not limited to:
1. New technology to be used in the Contact Center.
2. New approaches to clinical trial recruitment.
3. New NCI content in a variety of formats.
4. New NCI web sites, programs, and/or tools.
5. New clinical trials search forms.
6. Reaching target populations.
7. Scientific or training exchanges.
8. Expansion of services into prevention topics that have shown a direct relationship to cancer, ex.
    alcohol, obesity.
9. Working with intramural and extramural researchers who wish to include the Contact Center within
    the funded research; and
10. New approaches to recruitment for non-clinical trial cancer research studies.

The Contractor shall:
1. Participate in up to 3 pilot projects per year.
2. Ensure that pilot projects do not interfere with tasks and services provided to the public.
3. Ensure incorporation of human centered design methods and principles.
4. Ensure that Contact Center staff are informed of pending pilot projects, and implement appropriate
    staffing and training needs as required; and
5. Facilitate the implementation of pilot project results into Contact Center operations as directed by
    the Government.

Task 7: Strategic Outreach

Strategic outreach helps to advance the mission of NCI and leverage services offered through the NCI
Contact Center. In consultation with the COR, the Contractor shall work collaboratively to review
existing communications plans and develop a working document that outlines strategic outreach
opportunities that advance the work of the NCI’s Contact Center, including engagement strategies and
evaluation measures to assess progress.

The Contractor shall:
1. On a yearly basis, develop a strategic outreach plan that outlines specific objectives/targets for the
    upcoming year; strategies and tactics for meeting objectives; and evaluation metrics. Outreach
    activities considered as part of the plan should include Federal Agencies, national and health
    professional groups, national grassroots organizations, and non-Government organizations that
    align with NCI’s mission. The plan should consider NCI’s programs and priorities, with an emphasis
    on NCI designated Cancer Centers, National Clinical Trials Network, and NCI Community Oncology
    Research Program.
2. Support the implementation of the strategic outreach plan, once finalized, and approved, including
    ongoing strategic counsel, relationship building, project/pilot planning as needed, and coordination.
3. Conceptualize and implement an evaluation approach that qualitatively and quantitatively measures
    the effectiveness of the outreach efforts. Contractor shall develop evaluation criteria and data
    collection plans prior to initiating strategic outreach activities. A comprehensive assessment will be
    provided on an annual basis, which must include, at a minimum, a data analysis, implications, and
ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                              Page 7 of 14                                  May 14, 2024
   recommendations for strategy refinement.
4. In consultation with the Government, additional strategic outreach plans may be developed for
   specific pilot projects or NCI driven communication efforts that impact the NCI CIS.

Task 8: Management

The Contractor shall manage personnel, financial, communications, and material resources to ensure
that all contract requirements are satisfied, and a high-quality, innovative service is provided to the
public. The Contractor shall ensure that program objectives and quality assurance standards are clearly
communicated and strictly enforced.

A. Benchmarking
Rapid changes in technology and information seeking behavior directly impact the services delivered by
the NCI Contact Center. Continuous investigation into changing industry practices, technology solutions
and customer behaviors are crucial to delivering state-of-the-art, agile, customer-centric services.

The Contractor shall:
1. Demonstrate and institute program enhancements and use of innovative technology solutions that
    serve to refine operations, increase efficiency, and reduce costs.
2. Monitor, routinely report on, and make recommendations around Contact Center industry trends,
    including emerging standards, tools, and new technologies, to keep abreast of the latest and most
    effective technologies that serve to optimize efficiency and effectiveness of Contact Center
    operations.
3. Analyze customer data and potential target audiences to assess the most effective communications
    channels, with a particular eye toward underserved populations.
4. Analyze and use contemporary data visualization tools to gain insights from target audiences to
    ensure the most effective communication channels are activated; and,
5. Work closely with NCI’s Office of Communication and Public Liaison (OCPL) to assure optimal
    integration of Contact Center operations with NCI/OCPL business lines.

B. Workforce Management
The Contractor is responsible for hiring and training staff for all contract requirements including
coverage for all access channels and scheduling staff to meet service demands while meeting quality
assurance standards. The Contractor shall use a workforce management (WFM) system furnished by the
Government. This system will ensure the Government’s ability to balance CIS growth and operating
costs by forecasting schedules and workloads for all access channels.

The Contractor shall:
1. Forecast volume of customer contacts over all channels and use the forecasts to create schedules
    that will efficiently meet customer access throughout the day and will be adjusted based on volume.
2. Monitor the call management system and other systems that indicate the real-time flow of inquiries
    on each access channel and to meet real-time service needs, updating the workforce management
    system as necessary.
3. Monitor contact volume data to anticipate and adjust staffing needs and guarantee consistent,
    efficient operation of the Contact Center.
4. Submit a quarterly staff census report; and,
5. Anticipate media events that may increase volume and provide scalability options to meet increased
    demand.
ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                             Page 8 of 14                                  May 14, 2024
C. Communications
The Contractor shall maintain communications with the COR to apprise NCI of changes in staffing levels
and any issues that affect the Contractor’s ability to provide contracted services. The Contractor shall
implement procedures for communicating to the Government the primary point of contact and/or
designated key personnel for disaster-related issues, including power outages and inclement weather
and other unforeseen events that inhibit Contact Center operations. Such procedures shall include an
escalation process defining various stages of issue severity and the notification level appropriate to
each. These procedures shall be included in the Continuity of Operations/Disaster Recovery Plan.

The Government shall provide regular opportunities for the Contractor to communicate with the NCI
COR, such as conference calls, site visits, and meetings. The Contractor shall participate in all such
scheduled meetings and conference calls. Contractor management practices shall include proactive
consultation and communication with the NCI COR to address any issues affecting the successful
operation of the contract and the Contractor shall alert NCI to urgent situations. The Contractor shall
develop innovative approaches to the work and implementation of operational efficiencies. The Contact
Center shall communicate regularly with NCI in support of ongoing contract tasks, including semi-annual
presentations to members of OCPL Leadership. In addition, the Contractor shall provide communications
helpful to the Government and to NCI Divisions, Offices, and Centers (DOCs).

Communication to the Government may include, but are not limited to informing NCI about:
1. Potential topics or content for new publications, fact sheets, and/or Frequently Asked Questions
   based on customers’ needs.
2. Feedback on current cancer content to improve NCI’s web offerings.
3. The public’s perspective and how the public’s needs may inform NCI’s websites, publications, and
   materials (in English and Spanish).
4. Emerging topics (cancer-specific or programmatic) that require additional Contact Center staff
   training.
5. Trends in information seeking by cancer patients, their families, and the public.
6. NCI’s Web site improvements and/or problems.
7. Systems enhancements and/or problems; and,
8. Listen and learn sessions.

D. Information Analysis
CIS activities shall be data-driven – data collected is integrated into planning and delivery of services.
The Contractor shall use multiple data sets and systems to operate and manage the Contact Center. The
systems currently in use, furnished by the Government, include, but are not limited to:
1. Workforce Management System
2. Customer Relationship Management System
3. Call Recording and Quality Reporting System

Managers shall be familiar with all the data sources and use them to inform management decisions at
the highest levels. Supervisors shall use these data sources to supervise staff and perform other
supervisory functions.

ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                              Page 9 of 14                                   May 14, 2024
Task 9: Data Collection, Reporting and Analysis

The Contractor shall:
1. Collect and report data on every customer interaction; routinely and on an ad-hoc basis.
2. Collect and report data in support of contract activities, for NCI-directed pilot projects (see Task 6)
    and media promotions.
3. Facilitate qualitative data collection on a schedule to be determined by NCI staff.
4. Collect data using only NCI-approved data collection tools and systems.
5. Complete Electronic Contact Record Form (ECRF) and/or Smoking Cessation Intake Form (SCIF) for
    each contact at the time of the inquiry. These data records shall capture information about the
    nature of the inquiry, primary resources used, response provided, and demographic and customer
    service information, including brief customer satisfaction questions.
6. Ensure the accuracy, reliability, and completeness of data through established quality assurance
    processes as follows:
        a.     Data Collection Training - All Contact Center staff shall be trained in the proper data
               collection processes and in the use of approved data collection tools. In addition to the
               initial training on data collection, Contact Center staff shall be trained to collect data for
               specific health communication projects, as directed by the COR.
        b.     Regulations and Policies/Procedures -The Contractor shall collect and maintain data only
               after all study approvals have been obtained, including the Office of Management and
               Budget (OMB). Contact Center staff shall undertake data collection activities in
               accordance with Contact Center Policies and Procedures to ensure customers are not
               exposed to any unnecessary reporting burden.
7. Provide ad-hoc analysis on trends in collected data; and,
8. Provide ad-hoc reports for NCI Divisions, Offices, and Centers (DOCs) to inform program planning
    efforts and provide impact analysis of large-scale multi-site NCI supported clinical trials.

Task 10: IT and Telecommunications

Separate from this contract, the Government has procured quality assurance tools (CRM, Calabrio
Quality, or similar, and Workforce Management) that will be provided to the NCI Contact Center. The
Contractor is required to provide systems compatible to access the Government’s applications used in
operation of the Contact Center including:

        •   Microsoft Windows 10 and all security updates.
        •   Supported Browsers (Edge, Chrome, Firefox, Safari) and all security updates.
        •   and Microsoft Office 2010, complete with all security upgrades.

Any future upgrades of computers and/or software shall be the Contractor’s responsibility. The
Contractor shall use applications, software, and databases specified by the Government.

The Contractor shall:
1. Provide all Contact Center staff appropriate resources and training to ensure optimal operation and
    efficiency for all specified systems and databases (those currently used and to be implemented
    throughout the life of the contract).
2. Provide Internet access and network connectivity with sufficient capacity to support Contact Center
    operations and integrated telephone/internet system, as well as the ability to support operations in
    real time.

ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                               Page 10 of 14                                      May 2, 2024
3. Provide and maintain a System/Data Security Plan that includes security at the desktop as indicated
   in the applicable Article included in Section H.
4. Work in partnership with IT and Telecommunications Systems providers selected by the
   Government to ensure optimal Contact Center operations; and
5. Follow the HHS Enterprise Performance Life Cycle (EPLC) framework and methodology. Information
   about the EPLC policy and framework is currently available at:
   https://www.hhs.gov/web/governance/digital-strategy/it-policy-archive/policy-for-information-
   technology-enterprise-performance.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocio/eplc-lifecycle-
   framework.pdf.

A. Telecommunications
The Contractor shall:
1. Use Government-furnished telecommunications equipment, systems, and software.
2. Work with the Government and other service providers to ensure that all telecommunications
    equipment required to support the contract is fully operational within 30 days of contract award.
3. In the case of equipment failure, coordinate with NCI Contact Center Systems Administrator staff
    and provide immediate local telecommunications and information technology (IT) support to
    alleviate any downtime of operations; and
4. Adhere to all Contact Center policies and procedures related to telecommunications.

B. Telecommunications Security
The Contractor shall be responsible for telecommunications security to protect all incoming and
outgoing calls from unauthorized access and use. This responsibility includes physical security of
telecommunications equipment and security of the data collected from telecommunications activities.

C. Continuity of Operations/Disaster Recovery Plan (COOP/DR)
In the context of Continuity of Operations, a “disruption” is defined as an unplanned event that causes
the general system or major application to be inoperable (e.g., minor, or extended power outage,
extended unavailable network, or equipment or facility damage or destruction). A “disaster” is defined
as a major unplanned event that may cause longer term disruption and/or complete closure of service.
A disaster may include a hurricane, tornado, flood, major fire destroying the Contractor’s facility, or a
public health emergency, such as a pandemic.

The Contractor shall:
1. Develop and implement a Continuity of Operations/Disaster Recovery Plan for disruptions in service
    and major disasters. The plan shall include procedures addressing continuity of operations in the
    event of a disruption of service caused by the Contractor which results in a shutdown or lapse in
    service for any reason. The Contractor shall minimize service disruption to the Government and the
    public. Outages that are not caused by a major disaster may include system failure, or local network
    outage at the Contractor facility. The Contractor shall have plans and procedures in place for these
    circumstances that shall ensure that all attended and unattended services are restored to pre-
    outage performance levels within 4 hours after initial discovery of the outage.
2. Test the Continuity of Operations/Disaster Recovery plan on an annual basis; and,
3. The COOP/DR plan requires review and approval by the Government if changes are needed based
    on results from the annual testing. Changes shall be submitted no later than 30 days after annual
    review; the Government will review within 30 days of receipt.

Task 11: Security

ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                             Page 11 of 14                                    May 2, 2024
A. Facilities and Systems
The Contractor shall be responsible for assuring the security of any facilities used to conduct the work of
the contract and the security of all Government-furnished equipment and systems. The Contractor shall
provide a physically secure facility for people, equipment, and documentation. All security requirements
apply to the Contractor facility, alternative facility, or any subcontractor facilities. When designing
physical security measures, the Contractor shall address factors including, but not limited to:
1. Controlled Access - In general, facility access shall be limited to: Contractor personnel performing
    work; maintenance personnel or suppliers performing upkeep or repair of facilities or equipment;
    and customers on the site on official business.
2. Data Center - Access to the NCI CIS data center shall be physically secured, with entrance granted
    only to those requiring access to this area on a regular basis to perform their normal job functions or
    who are escorted, as in the case of visitors or housekeeping staff. Secure data includes, but is not
    limited to, Contact Center data and audio files from NCI’s quality assurance program.
3. Confidentiality and Data Security - To maintain the confidentiality of Contact Center customers, the
    Contractor shall adhere to data security requirements of the contract and destroy all personally
    identifiable information on a schedule provided by the NCI.
4. Systems Security, Operations and Maintenance – The Contractor shall work with the Government to
    ensure efficient operations of the Contact Center by notifying the Government of any service
    outages in telephone or internet access.

The Contractor shall:
1. Adhere to all DHHS and NIH regulations and guidelines regarding systems security for remote access
    to Government applications and databases. This includes completion of information security training
    and personnel clearance for access.
2. Adhere to program policies and procedures for access to services.
3. Report up-time and availability of each access channel, including Internet access issues at the
    Contractor’s location; and,
4. Inform NCI as soon as possible if/when operations must be suspended due to storms, power
    failures, or other incidents interfering with access to facilities.

Task 12: Transition Planning

All materials and data (most current versions) created and collected during performance and owned by
the Government shall be turned over in a timely manner.

The Contractor shall:
1. Revise the draft transition-in plan submitted with the proposal and submit a final transition-in plan
    within 7 days of contract award. The plan shall include a technical and management approach that is
    clear and complete including the timeline and resources required to commence Contact Center
    operations. The transition-in plan shall detail the planned transition methodology in logical
    sequence to ensure a smooth transition of all tasks and/or subtasks of the NCI Contact Center
    without interruption or degradation of service levels provided by the incumbent Contractor. The
    final transition-in plan shall be approved by the COR and followed to ensure an orderly, secure,
    efficient, and expedient transition of all contract activities by the end of the agreed upon contract
    transition period.
2. Develop and submit a draft plan 120 days prior to the contract expiration date and a draft final
    transition-out plan 90 days prior to contract expiration. The plan shall include a technical and

ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                              Page 12 of 14                                   May 2, 2024
     management transition approach that is clear and complete, including the timeline and resources
     required for the transition. The Transition-out Plan shall detail the planned transition methodology
     in logical sequence to ensure a smooth transition of all tasks and/or subtasks of the NCI Contact
     Center without interruption or degradation of service levels. The plan shall include an approach that
     ensures successful achievement while limiting impact to existing programs and/or projects. The
     draft final transition-out plan shall be revised, as needed, and will become the final transition-out
     plan upon approval of the COR. The approved final transition-out plan shall be followed to ensure an
     orderly, secure, efficient, and expedient transition of all contract activities by the contract
     completion date.
3.   Participate in meetings and/or telephone conversations required by the Government in which
     procedures and activities are discussed and delineated.
4.   Provide NCI, at any point during and at the conclusion of the contract, access to or copies of data
     and materials created, captured, or stored which support the services of this contract.
5.   Deliver in accordance with the transition plan: all materials, data, documentation, and software
     used and developed to support contract activities; and,
6.   Prepare all the items noted in this section for electronic transfer, mailing or shipping to the
     successor Contractor(s) and/or the Government as directed by the Government. As applicable, all
     items must be packed in new boxes of uniform size, clearly labeled with contents and a unique
     number along with an inventory showing contents of each box and placed on a loading dock for
     pickup by the new Contractor or designated agent in accordance with the delivery schedule.
     Electronic files shall be sent in a format specified by the Government.

Options for Additional Services

Options for U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Quitline Services

To expand NCI tobacco telephone quitline services to Veterans enrolled for care at VA and to assist in
increasing capacity and training to meet increased demand from Veterans.

The Contractor shall:
1. Provide Veterans access to established NCI quitline services as defined by the VA quitline services
    protocol, including handling reactive calls, e-referrals, SmokefreeVET text referrals, warm transfers,
    proactive callbacks, and outcome follow-up assessments.
2. Expand quitline services for Veteran callers as needed.
3. Provide training to the Tobacco Cessation Counselors on Veteran-specific issues, concerns and in the
    use of VHA resources within 60 days of award. This training shall provide a brief overview of the
    organization of health care in the VHA as well as background information about the characteristics
    of the Veteran populations in care in VHA to tailor the smoking cessation quit line messages to meet
    Veterans’ needs. Additional trainings shall be performed on an ad hoc basis based on programmatic
    needs and Government policies.
4. Provide a proactive callback service, within one to two weeks following the determination of the
    quit date, with a maximum of 4 callbacks for each quit attempt. The callback dates shall be guided
    by the Veteran. Up to an additional 4 callbacks may be provided to the Veteran if additional support
    is requested.
5. Collaborate on NCI-directed pilot projects (See Task 6).
6. Conduct ongoing assessment of VA quitline outcomes through follow-up phone surveys (4 month, 7
    months, 13 months) and reengage customers, as defined by the VA quitline services protocol, who
    may have relapsed.

ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                              Page 13 of 14                                  May 2, 2024
7. Record keeping and quality assurance of Veteran calls to quitline as outlined by NCI Contact Center
   standards and practices; and,
8. Work in partnership with the NCI and VA to address any additional IT and/or security needs required
   from changes in the VA quitline services protocol and/or implementation of VA specific pilot
   projects.




ATTACHMENT 3 –
STATEMENT OF WORK                           Page 14 of 14                                  May 2, 2024
